I'd like to talk to you about flat
matted down lawns a lot of times you'll
get your lawn to work you know look at
your lawn it's real flat and it's matted
the grass fit and growing very well
looks like maybe a herd of elephants
been running on it a lot of people know
what I got to do to get my grass tall
and thick again and the reason why it's
matted down let me take it let me show
you what I mean by matted down look at
the st. Augustine grass it's flat it's
not growing up very tall it's not real
real thick and the reason why is
underneath this st. Augustine the soil
is very hard and compacted the roots
cannot move in that hard ground so of
course you're not going to get a lot of
growth out of the st. Augustine if the
roots are not able to release and go
deeper down into the soil if you take a
look at this spot right here and it's a
good example side by side you got flat
matted down log here then you got the
tall thick st. Augustine here this is
where we want the grass to be so what
you have to do to get this flat matted
grass to grow is don't mow it let it
grow skip two weeks three weeks four
weeks until it gets to the height you
want it and then come on in and mow it
at about three to three and a half
inches high don't be in such a hurry to
mow the yard
you don't have to mow it very quick the
weeds may outgrow the grass that's fine
if you get real tall weeds go out there
and break them off but let the st.
Augustine grow sometimes you'll have to
wait two or three weeks to let it catch
up what you're gonna automatically see
by letting that st. Augustine grow is
you're gonna obviously see a taller
taller st. Augustine long it's gonna get
greener on its own just by you letting
it grow out a little bit of course you'd
want to aerate it and treat it and and
don't mow it real low mow it out at
least three to three-and-a-half inches
high but don't be gung-ho and want to
come out and mow it so quick if your
grass is real flat and matted down let
it grow and you'll see the color and the
thickness that you want